Okay, so now that we got that out of the
way, let's talk about the routing basics.
So, Next.js, like I said,
is a React-based framework.
But also, like I said, React doesn't have
any routing associated with it at all.
You kind of go find your own.
Who here has built a React app where they
had to like go find their own router
for React?
Right, what'd you end up using?
>> React router.
Yeah, anyone had any other luck
with any other frameworks or
any other libraries for routing?
>> Abusing anchor tags.
Of course just using anchor tags, yeah.
>> Abusing.
>> Yeah, abusing it, yeah.
I think there's another one called,
like, Reach Router.
I'm not sure how popular that one is, but
I think it's also made from the same
people who made React Router as well.
I don't know.
But even that alone is
just enough to be like,
now I got to go research all these routing
libraries and see which one's the best and
the most updated and
then learn that thing.
Well, Next.js as a framework is really
just about combining a bunch of
conventions that do things for
you automatically,
where it's supposed to feel magical.
Some people like that magical feeling.
Some people don't like
that magical feeling.
I personally like the magical feeling
when I know what it's doing and
I know what the alternative is.
So one of the magical things that
they do is that they just hook up
the router for you.
So you don't have to go figure out and
download or even configure a router.
You just make files and
folders and it's done.
So how does that work?
Well, it's all based
off the file system and
the structure inside of our app directory.
So basically every single folder that you
make in the app directory is going to
correspond to a different segment
in your router for your app.
So an example would be if we had, /app and
then we had /dashboard and then /settings
that's going to make a route for
our website.com /dashboard /settings.
And then to actually create a page
that loads up on that segment,
all we have to do is
create a page component.
So page.js or page.jsx or page.tsx,
just a page, it has to be called page.
If you use the previous version of Next,
this wasn't the case.
So if you use the pages directory,
any file that you made in a folder
was going to be that route.
So that's not the case here.
In this case, you actually specifically
have to call it page in order for
it to be a page in that segment.
So let's check that out.
We already have one.
If you look in the app directory,
there's a page right on the root.
So seeing how this page file is on the
root, that means its path is just slash.
So this will be the homepage, right?
And we couldn't make another page tsx or
jsx or
js in this folder because we
couldn't have two home pages and
we couldn't have two files
with the same names here.
So you kind of got to think through how
you're working through those conflicts.
But let's say we want to
make a another route here.
So let's make a new folder.
And we'll call it,
let's call it docs because we're going
to have a docs section where we
talk about the docs for our API.
So I can say docs and then I can go
in here then I can say page.tsx.
And all I have to do is just export
a component that returns some jsx, right?
So I'm just going to say const DocsPage.
And I'm just going to make
sure that's a default export.
All right, and then inside of here,
I'm just going to return, not here.
Oops, inside of here, I'm just gonna
return a div that just says DocsPage.
All right, so now we have our DocsPage.
And now without having to stop or start
anything, I can go right into the browser.
I can go into our app.
I can say docs, and I get my docs page And
that's all I had to do to make a new
route, very simple, very easy.
Didn't have to research a router,
didn't have to learn the router,
I didn't have to install the router,
set it up.
I just made a new file, a new folder or
a new file, that was it, it was free.
Any questions on that?
>> Can I just see the code for
that real quick?
>> Yeah, absolutely.
So I made a new folder called docs
on the root of the app folder, and
then I made a page.tsx in that, and
it's just a component that returns a div.
>> Is there a labeling convention for
capitalizing the docs page?
>> Yeah, for the for the most part, you
want to probably capitalize any component
that's a page,
I would say that's usually the convention.
And in fact, if you have a component
that like using for like UI and
you don't like capitalize it, and you try
to bring it in, you will get an error from
React saying like, all right,
this is not a real component.
So because it can't tell if
it's an element or component.
But in the case of this,
it's just a convention.
I don't think obviously
Next.js doesn't care about it.
So but yeah,
you'll see that most of the time of just
being like capitalizing your components.
And in fact, in my case,
I capitalize pretty much every component
that I have just because I don't want
to run into any issues from something like
Next.js or some future version of React.
Also I'm very lazy.
And sometimes I make components
the same name as elements.
And all elements are lowercase.
So I could just avoid that
collision by just making mine
uppercase like a component called image.
Well, you don't want to lowercase image
component cuz in what about the image tag
that is also img.
So, yeah, I just uppercase
everything Any other questions?
Cool, yeah, and so that's pretty
much how you would make a route.
It's basically free, but
it does get more advanced than that.
So with the newest version of Next.js,
we have really cool features in
the routing that allows allow
us to do some exciting stuff.
One of the things is something
called route grouping.
So let's just demonstrate
what route grouping is.
So you can,
it's better just to demonstrate than to
talk about it because it's kinda cool.
So route grouping is basically a way for
you to combine a bunch of routes
that live in a similar place.
Imagine you have a dashboard
that has a very specific layout.
It has navigation on the left,
some navigation on the top and
then the content, right?
And then within a dashboard,
there's 30 pages, right?
Okay, they all have a very similar layout.
So you kind of want them grouped
underneath the same segment.
But let's say you don't want
to put /dashboard in your URL.
You don't want all those routes that
live in the dashboard to have to have
/dashboard in the URL.
You don't want the URL to be affected
by them being grouped together.
Because what you would normally do is
you would just make a new folder and
call it dashboard, right?
And then you would just put all your
stuff in here, and that's totally fine.
But this would make our
website.com/dashboard/ the rest of our
routes.
I don't want that.
But I do want them to be grouped
together and have that common layout.
And we'll talk about layouts later.
So what I can do is I can actually just
wrap this in a parentheses like this.
And now I get the same benefit of any
route that I put in here that's gonna
have the exact same layout shared across
them, but it won't affect the URL.
So let's give it a shot.
So the one thing that you have to think
about when you do these route groupings
is because this segment is not
going to be part of the URL.
That means if I go in and
I make a page.tsx in here,
what is the actual route for this page?
If this is ignored in the URL, so then
what would be the route for this page?
Anyone wanna guess?
>> Home is the index.
>> It would just be home but
I already have one, right?
So now I have a collision, right?
And this is something
you have to think about.
Because this is ignored,
this will be home now.
But I already have a home.
So which one is gonna render?
Whichever one Next.js resolves to.
Actually, I think it will
actually just throw an error.
Let's see.
DashboardPage, I think Next.js
is smart enough to be like,
yeah, you have a conflict there.
Either way, you're not going to get
the behavior that you expect it
if you do this.
So you just have to think about it
when you do these route groupings.
So let's save that.
And then let's go to just home and
you can see it resolved to the one
that was on the route, right?
It just went there instead
of trying to go here.
Now, if I try to go to /dashboard,
we get a 404, right?
Because this segment
doesn't exist in the URL.
So you can't even go to this page.
It's like you just made a page for
nothing.
So to avoid that, typically what you'll
have inside of a folder that's grouped,
or other folders to create real segments,
right?
So you might have dashboard here, but
then inside of dashboard you might have
something like an actual folder
with no parenthesis on it,
it's like settings, right?
And then settings might have
a page inside of it, like so.
And now I can change this from
DashboardPage to SettingsPage,
And now I should be able to route to
/settings and then get this page, right?
So now if I go to /settings,
I'm on the settings page.
Okay, so again,
why would we want to do this?
Well, it has something to do with layouts.
I'm going to briefly talk about layouts,
but
we have a whole thing where
we talk about layouts.
But basically, layouts are,
if you've ever built any app in React,
you've probably made some of these.
This is like, I have some common UI
that I want all of these pages to share.
So I'm going to wrap
them around these pages.
That's basically what layouts is.
But you don't have to do it yourself.
All you have to do is
just make a layout file.
So if I go into the dashboard folder and
make a layout there,
every single page that's on the level or
below will share that layout.
And that's why you would do group folders,
is that, I want everything in this folder
to have the exact same layout
without affecting the URL.
If I do want it to affect the URL, then
I would just get rid of the parentheses.
That's basically it.
That's route grouping.
>> If there's a layout and
a page file inside of a
>> A folder.
>> A group, yeah, it'll render the page
and then render the layout inside of that.
>> Exactly,
if there's a layout next to a page,
the page gets rendered
in the layout always.
Every page on the same level or below
a layout gets rendered in that layout.
And we will talk more about layouts
cuz you can also nest layouts and
it gets pretty crazy.
But yeah, that's, that.
Any questions on that?
Okay, cool.
So let's make the routes for our app.
So for our app, we're going to have,
I mean, here's kind of the layout here.
We're going to have
basically our dashboard,
which is going to be route grouped.
So we're not gonna have
it be part of the URL.
Don't worry about this API thing.
We'll talk about that a little bit.
And then we have this docs folder
here with some crazy thing.
We'll talk about that
crazy thing in a minute.
So let's kinda set that up right now.
So we already have our dashboard.
And inside of our dashboard, we need
a todos folder where we have our page.
So let's do that.
So I'm gonna change
the settings from settings.
I'm gonna rename it to todos.
I don't know why I copid that whole thing.
I gotta write it all over again.
Dashboard, okay,
why did it show it like that?
That was weird.
It should just stop showing me the
shortcut and just show me the whole thing.
Let's call this todos.
There we go.
Okay, there we go.
And then we have our page in there.
And then our doc,
we have our page in there.
So, so far so good.
We have everything that we need.
We're able to route to /todos.
We're able to route to docs.
And we're able to route to the page.
So we can just verify all of that.
I'm going to go to home,
should be able to route there.
Should be able to route to /todos
which just say settings and
then we should be able to route to /docs,
which says docs.